Now the only thing left for the boss was to rigg and animate it. Firstly I needed to create a skeleton for the boss. I decided to only make a spine from the pot up to the cactus head, and then some arms for the movement. This would later be discovered to be a mistake because then the cactus were to move the entire pot tilted in the same direction as the cactus was leaning which made movement in the cactus more limited. The thing I would have to do to fix this problem was to add an extra joint for the bottom of the pot. But I realized this way too late when the mesh already was attached to the skeleton. But because the deadline for the final demo is soon to come, I didn't bother to remake the skeleton and the controllers, I simply had to be careful when animating. The first animation I created was a simple “running animation” or rather a rolling animation since the cactus had wheels instead of legs. I once again had the first and last keyframes to be in the same position for the boss to make a smooth looping animation. Then I just added some small movements to the cactus making I look like it was bumping around a bit and trying to keep its balance. I also did a sleeping animation for the boss, in case it would be in an idle state in the game, this was very easy since I made an animation similar to the one in session #8 for the main character, just some shoulder movement and some tilting that could loop forever. For the “hurt- ” and “shoot” animation I used some of the 12 principles of animation[3] that are based on Ollie Johnston and Frank Thomas's work which has previously worked for Disney. The principles that I used for the hurt animation were Exaggeration and squash and stretch. And for the shoot animation, I used anticipation and ease in and ease out principles for some nice movement. When I was settled with the animations I proceeded to export the cactus boss as an FBX file for the unity crew to do whatever they wanted to do with it.

[3] Adobe, Understanding the 12 principles of animation, URL: https://www.adobe.com/creativecloud/animation/discover/principles-of-animation.html
